Layer leap (#1764)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/build-decentralized-apps/token-bridging/layer-leap.mdx

---

> title: 'Layer leap contracts'

Reviewer: is it Layer Leap or layer leap?

description: 'Learn to use Layer leap contracts.'
author: leerderek
sme: amarrazza
target_audience: 'Developers who want to implement Layer leap contracts on their Orbit chain'
sidebar_position: 1
---

import PublicPreviewBannerPartial from '../../partials/_public-preview-banner-partial.mdx';

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

## Single click bridging from L1 to L3 is now possible with layer leap

- [ Main repository ](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/l1-l3-teleport-contracts) 
- [ SDK support ](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@arbitrum/sdk/v/3.5.1-teleporter.0) (pre-release!)
- [ Request Feature ](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-token-bridge/issues/new?assignees=&labels=feat,triage&projects=&template=add-layerleap-request.yml&title=[feat]) 

Contract Addresses

| Contract              | Address                                                                 |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Arb One L1Teleporter  | https://etherscan.io/address/0xCBd9c6e310D6AaDeF9F025f716284162F0158992 |
| Arb Nova L1Teleporter | https://etherscan.io/address/0xCBd9c6e310D6AaDeF9F025f716284162F0158992 |

## Launch details

> _Key timelines & announcements_

Reviewer: i think these sort of info should be much earlier in the page and more obvious. Perhaps a banner at the very top?

> **Orbit Onboarding:** We are looking for interested Orbit L3s with ETH gas for immediate rollout **AND** Orbit L3s with custom gas tokens for future adoption in our next release.

Reviewer: We should have a way for orbit teams to contact our team about layer leap

```suggestion
**Orbit Onboarding:** Orbit L3 chains that use ETH for their gas token are eligible for immediate onboarding, while Orbit L3 chains that use custom gas tokens will be supported in future releases. Orbit L3s interested in adopting Layer Leap, regardless of the token they use for gas, should reach out regardless <INSERT THE CONTACT METHOD HERE>. 
```

_Upcoming launches & future releases_

A future release of Layer Leap is not yet scheduled, but upcoming features including providing support for Orbit L3s with custom gas tokens.

## Value & user impact

> **End-users:** Can now bridge `ETH` and `ERC-20`s from Ethereum to your Orbit L3 in a single click.

Reviewer: Might be a good idea to explicitly state that only L3s that eventually settle back to Ethereum are supported. I presume that L3s on top of other L1 chains are not supported based on this sentence

- Bridging `ETH` requires one call on L1
- Bridging an `ERC-20` requires one approval and one call on L1

> **Orbit L3s:** Can more seamlessly onboard `ETH` and `ERC-20`s from Ethereum mainnet.

Reviewer: how is this different from the end user value/impact?

_Which Orbit configurations can adopt this feature?_

> **Any L3 Orbit Chains on top of an Arbitrum chain** **_with ETH gas fees_** can use Layer Leap.

Reviewer: might be worth stating that L3s with ETH gas can use it today and L3s with custom gas tokens is on our roadmap.

- Layer Leap contracts are currently only deployed for Arb One and Arb Nova, but contracts can be deployed for additional Arbitrum Layer-2s by Offchain Labs or your RaaS provider.
  - The Layer 2 must be an Arbitrum chain due to the use of retryables.
- _Future support: Layer Leap will support Orbit chains with custom gas tokens in a future release_

> ## Implementation

Reviewer: In this section, i expected to read *how* layer leap works in a few sentences (max).

_How can Orbit chains adopt this feature?_

**UI Adoption:** Layer leap contracts can be integrated into your own bridge or added to your chain’s UI for the Arbitrum bridge (bridge.arbitrum.io)

### Arbitrum bridge UI: if you are already on the arbitrum bridge UI then you can sign up for layer leap adoption by using this [github template](https://github.com/offchainlabs/arbitrum-token-bridge/issues/new?assignees=&labels=feat%2ctriage&projects=&template=add-layerleap-request.yml&title=%5bfeat%5d%3a+enable+layer+leap+for+%3corbit+chain%3e).

>     - If you are not on the Arbitrum Bridge UI yet you can sign up by filling out this [GitHub Template](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-token-bridge/issues/new?assignees=&labels=feat%2Ctriage&projects=&template=add-orbit-chain-request.yml&title=%5Bfeat%5D%3A+), and then also fill out the template above.

Reviewer: I think the order of operations here is confusing or the way it is presented is confusing. If there are steps/dependencies, it should be made a bit more obvious rather than having 1 instruction in the header and one in a bullet point below it.

>     - You can demo Layer Leap on the Arbitrum Bridge by bridging to [Rari](https://bridge.arbitrum.io/?destinationChain=rari-mainnet&sourceChain=ethereum) and [Proof of Play](https://bridge.arbitrum.io/?destinationChain=pop-apex&sourceChain=ethereum).

Reviewer: Perhaps a demo of Layer Leap should be one of the 1st things a user sees/reads in this page.

### Custom bridge UI: if you want to integrate layer leap functionality into your custom bridge UI, read the [info page on the layer leap github](https://github.com/offchainlabs/l1-l3-teleport-contracts/blob/main/docs/info.md) to learn more.

_What chains are currently supported?_

Layer Leap requires an L1 teleporter contract for each L2 chain. `L1Teleporter` contracts are deployed on Ethereum L1 for Arb One and Arb Nova.

| Contract              | Address                                                                 |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Arb One L1Teleporter  | https://etherscan.io/address/0xCBd9c6e310D6AaDeF9F025f716284162F0158992 |
| Arb Nova L1Teleporter | https://etherscan.io/address/0xCBd9c6e310D6AaDeF9F025f716284162F0158992 |

For non Arbitrum One L3s:

> - To enable Layer Leap for your Layer 3 you can follow the Deployment Procedure defined [here](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/l1-l3-teleport-contracts/blob/main/docs/info.md). Before self deploying, let Offchain Labs know about your request!

Reviewer: What about for L3s on Nova? It's not clear to me without reading a bit more that a new contract deployment is what is required for L3s on Arb1 and Nova. 

Also how does someone contact offchain labs here? We should add a contact link/form.

> _Implementation requirements for RaaSes?_

Reviewer: This probably be its own section since the entire page so far has been aimed at orbit chain owners

Author: Removed the config instructions for L3

> Sending tokens from L2 to L3 relies on creation of a retryable. If you are supporting Layer Leap for your Orbit chains it’s highly recommended to be running the Retryables Monitoring tool: https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arb-retryables-monitoring. This will allow you to track and redeem any failed retryables

Reviewer: Would probably prefer to see this hyperlinked. Also when we talk about retryables, we should refer to https://docs.arbitrum.io/how-arbitrum-works/arbos/l1-l2-messaging#retryable-tickets

> _What configuration options or parameter changes should I consider?_

Reviewer: This feels incomplete and I'd argue that, even if it were complete, this info should be available before we give the user a way to adopt it
